I made friends quickly at Marham. Tommy and Ina, who lived almost next door, were both Irish.
He was a fireman in the RAF regiment and they had three children.
I can't remember their names but I think the eldest girl was Alison.
Sharon and Patrick played with them all the time. They were a very friendly family and I loved their Irish accent.
My other friend Angie, who was Italian and married to Paul, another fireman in the RAF regiment.
She had a boy and girl about the same age as my two. Angie gave me a Christmas cake recipe.
I still have the same paper it was written on. It's my favourite and I'd used it for birthday and wedding cakes.
We both worked together until I left Marham.
Angie had been at Marham a little longer than me and she worked in a gang of land girls going around potato picking etc.
They were all RAF wives and I eventually joined them.
We would be picked up in a large white van after dropping our children at school.
A tractor pulling a machine would bring the potatoes to the surface and it was back breaking work for us putting them in the sacks.
It was piece work so you had to be pretty fast and it was harder still when we pulled carrots from frozen ground.
Sometimes we would also go picking strawberries and the children would come and work too.
They would carry the little baskets to be weighed and receive their money.
I think most of the strawberries ended up in their tummies.
Our gang even went to work inside a pickled onion factory during the summer holidays.
It was convenient because there was a nursery for the children in the same building.
The civilian women didn't like us much but I was used to that by now.
When we weren't on the land our gang leader would always find work for us all and I especially loved working in the large plant nursery.
There were poly tunnels everywhere and I would have to kneel on a turned over milk crate to weed inside them.
It was very painful but also quite relaxing and I loved the smell inside the tunnels.
They had hose pipes outside each one as there was always plenty of watering to do.
I learnt a lot about plants from the old gardeners who worked there.
It was so fascinating to watch them grafting small apple trees.
I was given a cotoniaster cutting, one of the not so good plants they reckon,
but I still have it now and it's thriving by my pond.
It is covered with a mass of flowers every year and the bees love it.
Angie left the gang because she had a new job cleaning the grafting club on camp.
It even had its own cinema.
It was much better for her, she was warm and dry working inside.
Eventually she managed to get me work there and it was very handy because I could take the children into the club
to wait for their school to open and I was even allowed to take them to school later.
I had to have a pass to enter through the main gate.
They were guarded by two armed guards and I'd have to throw my bag on the floor for them to search inside it.
Patrick and Sharon thought this was great but I found it a bit scary.
At work we would take it in turn to go to the stores to fetch clean towels etc.
and it was quite a walk across the camp.
I had done it quite often but one day I walked over to stores and thought they were something odd because the doors were locked.
All of a sudden these airmen in combat kits with leaves etc. on their helmets charged out of the bushes towards me shouting,
Halt! Who goes there?
It even got worse because lorries came towards me full of troops and I really thought they would arrest me.
They thought it was very amusing and I could see a few with smiles on their faces.
When I had shown them my pass they let me go back to work.
The girls laughed so much when I arrived back.
They knew there was an exercise on and that the stores would be locked up.
Apparently they had all been through this so I could see the funny side in the end but I was really really scared at the time.
One day Ray bought home a little black kitten.
Hefyd wedi bod yn cael ei chanol ac mae'n ffrindiau hefyd wedi mynd i hefyd.
Y pŵerau wedi'i ddod yn fwyaf a roedd hi'n cael ei ddod yn ymwneud â Shiba.
Sally, ein pŵer ddod, yn cael eu gofnod ac roedd nhw'n fwyaf. Sally yn gallu llwyfio eu chytanau pan oeddent.
Roeddwn yn ffwrdd iawn i ddod o'r holl ymlaen.
We came back for a few days to Cairnws at the beginning of September 1979.
My brother Brian married Heather Hughes on 18 September.
It was great to see everyone and the children loved seeing their grandparents, aunts, uncles and cousins.
Brian and Heather were married at St Peter's Church Machynll with the reception at the Riverside Hotel.
Ymlaen i'r holl hwn yn y ddau Bryndilas Cainws.
Yna, yn y peth, roedd yn mynd i'r rôl i'r 5 ar y Bryn a mae o'n ymwneud ymlaen i'w.
Un o'r ffotwyr ffawr oedd yn cael ei ddod yn y bach o'r hotel.
Mae'n unig gyda'r 8 o'n ni.
Sian, dyna'r fater, Alison, fi, Jennifer, Ann, mam a Brian.
Yn ystod ein bod yn ystod Cainws, roeddwn yn mynd i Llanfachrwydd i weld Dai Jen a'r plant.
Roedd yn fawr iawn i'w gweld nhw.
Sian a Patrick yn eich gwell gyda'u cwzynau oherwydd nad oedd yn gweld ein hun yn dda.
Roedd yn hollol yn gwneud yn ystod ein hun, ac Jen yn ystod unrhyw babi, Laura, yn ystod yw.
Mae'r unrhyw ddau i'n sian a fi wedi mynd i Sian a Patrick i'r arfer.
Yr unrhyw ddau i ni wedi bod yna gyda'i gydag, roedd yn ystod ein hun a fi wedi cymryd yn y casl,
a ymweld hj Vidleہ agos 1968, Clwb Pike ac Ysgrifenariad, a'r ysgrifoedd fesul am script,
a wellais a datgan aがai ei list r barn, , roedd gennych ei nhw ries i'w pan eu camo i mewn isioes clws Алекс i Gres byddai wed yn Jade-u.
Roedd yn edrych cai Ven interessoss Cbladeol erbyn writer, mewn ffordd gydag Brian.
Rhian yn cyملwyd dim bîrau positif o eleiaid yr un, ac mae wedi gorfodi eu hwyr yn eich lipos Hebeth metalad storンol.